# solarpanel
## Calculating daily wattage from solar power using the location retrieved from the IP address of the user.

### Research paper on the importance of solar power:

Today, climate change remains to be one of the world’s biggest problems. To help bring about a gradual change and solution, we must slowly begin to change its biggest contributors, such as the transport sector, industry, and homes. The average daily wattage of a UK household lies between 8-10 kWh. Therefore, a renewable energy source must be effective and produce enough energy to meet this requirement. There are many renewable energy options to consider, such as solar radiation, wind power and bioenergy. I will be discussing the use of all three renewable options and determining which is the best for powering a home.

Homes require heating, lighting and other appliances, all of which use up energy. Therefore, the energy used for these functions must be green and are produced in abundance. From the chart shown on the right, the majority of energy is used for heating and lighting. This means that the energy source we should use must also be able to be converted and efficiently used for heating. For example, biomass heating systems burn organic material in a wood-burning stove or a boiler to provide heat and hot water. Biomass would work perfectly for the two main uses of a home: space and water heating. Another example may be solar water heating, which can be installed alongside other hot-water heating systems and use the sun to heat the temperature of the liquid in panels, to heat water in a tank ready for later use. Although electricity may be used to power electric heating systems today, we should also think about the homes that do not use electrical systems. 

To begin, I believe that the best short-term solution to provide a greener energy source for powering a home would be to utilise wind energy. Wind energy is mostly generated from wind turbines and makes up 17% of the UK’s electricity capacity. There are approximately 8400 turbines, with an operational capacity of 13.6 GW, making wind turbines a large-scale solution. In the UK for example, there is onshore and offshore wind capacity, which provides more green energy to homes in the UK. However, as the contribution of these wind turbines increases, the need for larger turbines increases. This means that its cost continues to soar, making wind turbines difficult to keep up in the long term. They also require maintenance, such as blade cleaning and repair, since ice often forms on the blade, particularly when offshore in the North Sea. Failure to do so would likely result in performance decrements of up to 5-25%. However, while wind turbines remain to have issues, there is a lot of hope and future for the renewable energy source. In particular, wind turbines can be utilised to their full potential in areas offshore, as higher wind speeds are available in deeper waters, while there is limited availability in shallow waters. Recently, there has been the use of wind turbines on small boats to be used in deep waters in Scotland. If wind turbines become more widely spread and common across many countries, they can slowly start to bring about greener energy in the world.

For a medium-term solution, I would give bio-energy its full credit. Bioenergy capitalises on the sun, using plants to produce fuels, and combust them to convert heat energy into electricity. This method is a lot greener than it may seem since it provides a cyclic approach. The sun allows the growth of plants and releases oxygen gas, and when plants are combusted, the carbon dioxide emitted is only absorbed by plants once more to repeat the process. An example of fuels that can be made from this is gaseous biofuels, e.g., methane. This can be used for cooking, heating and electricity, all of which are crucial elements of a home. From biomass, biohydrogen can be produced via anaerobic digestion of photolysis, which is very environmentally friendly and sustainable. It provides an energy source that is not only sustainable but also high in energy density.

There are two main types of biofuels: first-gen and second-gen. First-gen liquid biofuels, such as bioethanol, are produced via ordinary food crops that are sugar and starch-based. These food crops can be burnt to produce heat or electricity. However, second-gen liquid biofuels are produced by burning crops that are designed to be made into biofuels. To develop future biorefineries that integrate fuels, steam and electricity from biomass, we need to use green chemicals – those that are produced sustainably. If we were to use ordinary chemicals, we would not be as green as we think, since we must factor in the processes to produce the chemicals first. This type of biofuel still requires investigation for conversion into main fuels like ethanol, but is currently being researched and remains to be a promising renewable energy source. 

The transportation of biofuels remains an issue, and the process operation and production costs are often too high to consider for the average household. Although, for those with ideal conditions, a land full of green space, and money to spend, this option may be of great consideration.

I believe the use of solar energy is the best and most long-term solution for all homes, predominantly for those in sunlit areas. Solar panels allow for energy from the sun to be taken in and converted into heat energy and electricity, or used directly for a boiler and used in a turbine. While its advantages remain strong as being a cheaper power source and reducing the electric bill, its effectiveness lies greatly in the location of the user. For example, a user in an area with less sun, say China, will receive less sunlight than Australia. This means that the energy source is dependent on the sun and is not very reliable. Another issue lies in energy storage. Solar panels require an energy storage system, like a solar battery, to capture electricity for later use. These are quite expensive, and also require a lot of free space, which many homes may not have an abundance of. It is, therefore, reasonable to suggest that the use of solar panels would be a long-term solution to power a house in an eco-friendlier manner since the technology is far from complete in the effectiveness category. It takes a few years to cover the costs of a Tesla solar panel for example, but over a longer period, this investment will become financially superior over the regular electrical bill.

In order to convert solar energy into electricity and heat, we use photovoltaics. When the sun shines onto a solar panel, the energy from the sunlight is absorbed by the PV cells in the panel, which creates electrical charges that move in response to an internal electric field in the cell – causing electricity to flow. The light energy from the sun also causes particles of the object to vibrate, which turns light energy into heat energy. This energy is then radiated out as infrared light. This process is automatic and requires little technical knowledge and expertise, which other renewable options may require. While the installation of solar panels can be complex and requires engineers, once installed there are rarely any further issues. Users may also choose to utilise concentrated solar power, which generates solar power using mirrors or lenses to concentrate a large area of sunlight onto a receiver. When this light is converted to heat, solar thermal energy, it drives a heat engine connected to an electrical power generator. There are many options to consider depending on the budget and scale of the operation, but overall, there is something for everyone to consider. 

Earlier this year, I wrote Python code that determined how much solar power is generated depending on where you are in the world. It retrieved the users’ IP address, looked up their precise location, gathered their sunlight hours, and calculated the daily wattage depending on the wattage of their solar panels, and how many were installed. I wanted to figure out whether or not using solar panels to power homes would provide enough wattage for the average household - 8-10 kWh a day. Below is the code, you may have to install modules like wbdata and geoip2, but it should work to a close degree of accuracy (hopefully!). Using this, consumers may be able to predict how reasonable it would be to install solar panels in their homes and work out the financial advantages, if any, of such an option. If you would like to download it, I have attached a link below.
To conclude, there are many viable renewable energy options to power homes, and some may be more viable than others based on individual circumstances. I would still consider solar energy to be the most effective and sustainable renewable energy source to power a house, however, since it caters to the majority of people in countries where their contribution to climate change is the greatest. Interestingly, the biggest contributors to climate change: China and the United States, also hold the wealth, resources and sunlight hours to put in place solar panels across their countries. There is nothing a few households can do on their own to help combat climate change; it must be a united effort.

 
#### Sources:

•	Ingrams, S. (2021). Heating Your Home with Renewable Energy. [online] Which? Available at: https://www.which.co.uk/reviews/home-heating-systems/article/home-heating-systems/heating-your-home-with-renewable-energy-awbE17x2m5UC [Accessed 4 Aug. 2021].

•	U.S. Energy Information Administration (2009) – RECS Survey Data. [online] Available at: https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/data/2009 [Accessed 14 Jul. 2023].

•	Solar Energy Technologies Office (n.d.). How Does Solar Work? [online] Energy.gov. Available at: https://www.energy.gov/eere/solar/how-does-solar-work [Accessed 14 Jul. 2023].

•	Wikipedia Contributors (2019). Concentrated solar power. [online] Wikipedia. Available at: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concentrated_solar_power [Accessed 14 Jul. 2023].
